---
layout: post
title:  "LBD Love: my latest creation"
date:   2013-09-08 20:57:52
categories:
---

This week I made a dress. 

Recently I've been feeling like I need more versatile clothes — and when it comes to versatile attire, the LBD is definitely up there. But, as per usual, shops just don't tend to stock anything that fits quite right. 

So many items that look great on the hanger or catwalk simply have not been designed to fit real women. This is a pet gripe of mine. Now I'm not exactly large but let me tell you, I do not look good in items designed for flat-chested, butt-less and lanky teenagers. Its not just body weight and curves that most designs fail to cater for. Its also shape and build. We don't all have the same ratio between the size of our rib cage and the width of our shoulders. Or the length of our torso, and the length of our legs. (And can anyone explain to me why manufacturers deem it necessary to make pretty bras ugly as soon as you need a cup size greater than a C?)

So the concept was to make a dress to wear to work, drinks and dinner. Something simple which, with a few accessories, can be worn for a night out. A relatively calm one, anyway.

I started with a length of black suiting with a tiny bit of stretch. No pattern, just the fabric. I'm not too sure how much I used since I had a massive length of it, but 2m would definitely do. 

I made two identical rectangles of length (vertical height from shoulder to knee) x width (hip measurement/2 + about ten centimetres).

The next step was the darts, then back zipper (invisible zip), then side seams — making sure to iron them flat as soon as I could, to get a better feel of how the dress fitted. 

Note on ironing: this is a step I always used to skip. Ironing is annoying. It feels like a waste of perfectly good time which has been directed elsewhere since the 80s. But here, ironing is important — it saves time, makes the garment look more finished, and often allows you to skip those pesky irritating pins. 

For movement, I took inspiration from a skirt I had bought and inserted a box pleat (if thats what its called?) which worked surprisingly well, actually. Next was the facing for the front neckline, shaping and topstitching the top of the dress, and the hem. 

I found working out how I wanted the straps/sleeves to look to be the most difficult and frustrating part of the whole exercise. Eventually I settled on sort of small cap sleeves which I made out of — well, basically out of large straps. 

Thats pretty much all there was to it! 